stardate 50063.2.
Captain's Log,
JANEWAY:
We've accepted an invitation
from the Nechani
shore leave on their world.
to take a few days'
We're enjoying the opportunity
to learn about their culture.
This sanctuary honors
our Ancestral Spirits.
NECHANI MALE:
is very strong here.
Their presence
of the Nechisti Order.
Those are brothers
They've devoted
their lives
the Spirits.
to serving
you might find interesting.
Here's something
What do you think
this means?
Hard to tell.
symbol, maybe?
A fertility
good luck or wisdom.
Or a blessing for
Or happiness and love.
Do you hear something?
What?
It's beautiful.
Look at that.
It looks like a shrine.
Come on, sweeting,
we don't want to
be left behind.
I just want to take
a quick look.
Kes!
Kes.
Can you hear me?
Help!
Somebody!
We need help!
What happened?
TORRES:
This shrine is protected.
Oh, you mustn't be here.
NECHANI:
She didn't touch anything.
She went as far as that archway
and then an energy field
knocked her down.
We have a medical emergency.
Torres to Voyager.
directly to Sick Bay.
Beam Kes and Neelix
Yes, Lieutenant.
MAN:
Oh, this is most unfortunate.
Please, I must ask you
to leave as well.
We aren't going anywhere
what happened to her.
until we find out
What kind of energy
was she exposed to?
I-I-I have no idea.
This is a sacred place.
Only the monks truly understand
what happens here.
scanning equipment down
Then we'll bring
and investigate
for ourselves.
That's out of the question.
It would show disrespect
to the Spirits.
been critically injured.
One of our crew has
We aren't going to stand
by and do nothing.
There's nothing you can do.
She's been punished
by the Spirits.
She's going to die.
If you prevent us
from helping Kes,
directly responsible
we will hold you
that happens to her.
for anything
I will make a full report
to our Captain.
I'm sure you'll be hearing
from her.
I'll be happy to talk to her
whatever I can to help,
and to do
but your presence here
a delicate situation worse.
only makes
Please, leave now.
very weak but stable.
Her life signs are
It appears that her
synaptic pathways
a severe neuroleptic shock,
have undergone
all cortical functions.
which is disrupting
a comatose state,
It is similar to
but with none of the usual
biochemical markers.
You can cure her,
can't you?
I can't even speculate
on a treatment
what caused her condition.
until I know more about
We're working on that.
We aren't allowed near the area
the accident occurred.
but Kim and Torres are scanning
the sanctuary from Voyager.
their findings to you.
They'll report
to talk to the magistrate.
And I have an appointment
I'm hoping he'll be able
to cut through some
the monks have set up.
of the restrictions
Excuse me, Captain...
MAGISTRATE:
something to help.
I'd like to do
The Nechani must have records.
Some kind of scientific data
on this energy field.
and see what you can find.
Go down to the planet
I'll be back soon.
Please understand, Captain,
I'm caught in a most
difficult situation.
of the government
I'm an official
not a spiritual leader.
I don't pretend
to understand
why the Spirits do
what they do.
talk with the brothers.
Then perhaps I could
the Nechisti Council
I've asked
to give you an audience,
but I'm afraid they consider
the matter closed.
their sympathies for your loss.
They've asked me to express
There is no loss
at this point.
Kes is still alive.
Surely, there's some
way to treat her.
the monks meet with me?
Can't you insist that
We have an agreement
with the Council.
themselves with government
They don't involve
in their spiritual matters.
and we don't interfere
centuries and it's always
It's been that way for
worked well for us.
Then can you tell me
what you do know
and what happens there?
about the sanctuary
I'll try.
That particular shrine
is where the monks go
to receive the gift
of purification--
cleansing of the soul.
most holy places.
It is one of our
You mean the monks can enter it
without being harmed?
They prepare themselves
with a sacred ritual
during which they speak directly
with the Ancestral Spirits.
to enter the shrine safely.
After that, they are able
What happens in that ritual?
How does it offer protection
against the energy field?
explanations for everything.
Captain, you seem to want
I don't have them.
Only the brothers who've
gone through the ritual
and they're sworn to secrecy.
know what happens there,
that Kes encountered--
The energy field
who could give me
is there anyone
that would help us analyze it?
scientific information
naturally occurring phenomenon.
All we know is that it is a
If you're telling me...
you can do to help Kes,
that there's nothing
I simply won't accept that.
If I could help you, I would.
I swear it.
I blame myself.
If I'd watched more carefully,
seen that she was approaching
the shrine...
There's nothing more
to be done now.
You have our sympathy.
Have Kim and Torres
given you a report?
a fascinating lesson
Yes. I received
in the challenges of getting
clear scanner readings
through solid rock.
We were eventually able
to distinguish
at the site of Kes's accident.
an intense biogenic field
That would certainly explain
the neuroleptic shock.
She was lucky not to have
been killed instantly.
As I understand it,
the Nechani monks
without being harmed at all.
are able to enter the field
they'd care to tell us how?
Really? I don't expect
No, they wouldn't.
( door opens )
to conventional treatments
She's not responding
and frankly, I'm running out of
unconventional ideas as well.
The level of activity
in her brain is so low,
I can't rule out
the possibility
even if I can revive her.
of permanent damage,
The longer she stays
in this condition,
the less likely it is
she'll ever recover.
How is she?
I'm afraid there's
been no change.
everything I could find
I've researched
about the sacred shrine.
much scientific evidence,
I didn't uncover
but there was one story--
it was in a very old text,
I'm not sure how reliable--
about a boy who recovered
from a condition like Kes's.
He was a young prince.
the shrine accidentally
He wandered into
and he went into
a death sleep.
the will of the Spirits.
Everyone said it was
His father, King Nevad,
refused to accept that,
so he went through
the ritual
to seek an audience
with the Spirits
for his son's life.
and he pleaded
in their infinite mercy,
The Spirits,
granted his request.
of hope that I could find.
That was the only trace
Maybe it's enough.
Well, you've certainly done
your research, Captain.
I'm familiar with the story.
I heard it as a child.
It suggests that there's
still a chance for Kes.
about a very specific case.
You're talking
MAGISTRATE:
responsibility for the prince,
Nevad was able to claim
as a father and as a king.
were willing to listen to him.
That's why the Spirits
The Captain of a starship
for every member of her crew.
is fully responsible
( sighs )
So she is.
Then on that basis,
I'd like to go through
the ritual myself.
from the magistrate yet,
I haven't heard
there was a strong possibility
but he seemed to think
the monks would let me
go through the ritual.
Captain, forgive me,
but you've never been
one to put much trust
in religious ceremonies.
you hope to accomplish?
Exactly what is it
whether I expect to speak
If you're asking
to the Ancestral Spirits--
no, of course not.
But something happens
to the monks
when they go through the ritual,
something that allows them
to withstand the effects
of the biogenic field.
I want to find out what that is.
It might provide clues
to a treatment.
Some kind of physiological
change, maybe.
That's what I'm guessing.
on Delios VII practice a ritual
The shamans of the Karis Tribe
that increases the electrical
resistance of their skin.
from plasma discharges
It protects them
in their sacred caves.
Something similar must happen
during this ritual.
We'll have to find a way
to allow the doctor
your physical condition,
to monitor
call for an emergency beam-out
and you should have a way to
if you need it,
as a precaution.
what the ritual entails.
We don't have any idea
Federation's cultural database.
I've been reviewing the
spirit quest ceremonies
Most traditional
of physical challenge
involve some kind
or a test of endurance--
to prove the mastery
of spirit over body.
this one will be similar.
My instinct tells me
A series of ordeals that will
result in biochemical changes.
Of course, there's always
the possibility
that the Ancestral Spirits
really do control
in the shrine.
what happens
To each his own, Commander.
scratched deep enough,
But I imagine if we
we'd find a scientific basis
for most religious doctrines.
taught me about the science
I remember when my mother
underlying the vision quest.
In a way I felt... disappointed.
Some of the mystery was gone.
Maybe the Nechani have chosen
not to lose the mystery.
Under other circumstances,
to go along with their choice.
I'd be more than happy
Right now, it's killing
one of my crew.
Bridge to the Captain.
KIM:
Janeway here.
an incoming transmission
You have
from the magistrate.
to Chakotay's office.
Put it through
Aye, Captain.
I must congratulate you,
Captain.
Your creative approach
to this problem
the Nechisti Council.
has fascinated
Then they've approved
my request?
Eagerly.
They consider it an honor
that you want to seek
the Spirits.
The ritual traditionally
begins at sunset.
the entrance to the sanctuary.
A guide will meet you at
I appreciate your efforts.
Thank you.
I have been greatly troubled
by your misfortune, Captain.
to convince the Spirits
If you are able
no one would be happier than I.
to spare your friend,
Everything seems to be working.
will transmit any changes
The subdermal bioprobe
in your biochemistry.
And, Captain,
KIM:
contains a homing beacon,
the implant also
which we'll be able to pick up
no matter how far into the
sanctuary you go.
like a combadge,
Just tap it
and we'll transport
you immediately.
Thank you both.
that will be necessary.
I don't think
It is standard procedure
on an away mission,
to carry arms
don't know what to expect.
particularly when you
information-gathering mission.
This is strictly an
I don't want to appear hostile.
Energize.
( buzzing )
( tapping )
( chuckling )
you know anything
I don't suppose
about chromodynamic lights?
No, not really.
Oh...
I suppose I could look at it.
They're as fussy
as Tarchee cats.
You tune them too high,
they burn out.
You tune them too low,
they sputter.
I've told the monks
to replace them all
with neodyne lights.
It would save hours
of repair work.
That device you've got,
what is that?
It's called a tricorder.
A tricor...
What exactly does
a tricorder do?
It's a scanning device.
Interesting. May I?
Oh. Atmospheric reading,
energy field analysis,
full technical database.
a convenient thing to have.
This is certainly
for you to keep it.
Oh, I didn't mean
I'll need that back.
( chuckling ):
Ah...
No, you won't.
You're my guide.
spiritual companion--
Guide, advisor,
whatever term you prefer
is fine with me.
Well, why didn't you say
something earlier?
Shall we get started?
It's all right,
Kathryn.
any vows of secrecy now
Would it be breaking
to tell me what this ritual
will involve?
Why do you think I know?
Haven't you been through
this before?
Don't worry.
I'll help you
find your way.
Tell me--
have you completely
committed yourself
to this journey?
Yes.
You're willing
to go through
been doing for centuries
what the monks have
to help them find
the Spirits?
Yes.
biochemical data
So you can send
back to your ship?
No, it wasn't magic.
detected the microprobe
Our bio-scanners
under your skin.
I hope that won't be a problem.
Makes no difference
at all.
You are fond of your little
devices, aren't you?
They've always served me well.
I'm sure they have.
Please, come this way.
Who are you?
I'm Kathryn Janeway.
the ritual begins?
Is this where
Oh, the ritual... yes.
We're waiting.
Come, join us.
are you waiting for?
What exactly
Just... waiting.
How long have you been
sitting here?
Uh, how long has it been?
Why are you asking me?! I've
lost track!
It's been a while.
I know that.
Oh, it's been...
as long as we can remember.
I have to wait a lifetime
Are you telling me
through the ritual?
before I can go
I didn't hear anyone
say that, did you?
Certainly not, all we said
was that we're waiting.
I'm just trying to understand
how this works.
in the sanctuary were young.
The monks I saw
They couldn't have waited
such a long time
to go through their rituals.
about that, you know.
Now, she's right
She's a smart one.
She thinks she is,
at any rate.
This is a test of some kind,
isn't it?
To prove my determination.
A test? She thinks
we're a test.
talking about?
What is she
She must like tests.
make sense to her.
I suppose tests
Has anyone ever tried
to open this door?
do we have to tell you
How many times
that we are waiting?!
you just sit down and relax?
My dear, why don't
You're much too tense.
to wait with us.
You're welcome
a friend who's depending on me.
I don't want to wait. I have
I have to go through
the ritual.
always this impatient!
I wonder if she's
Oh, she's just
determined.
She wants to get on with it.
Seems to me, she
could be friendly
a few minutes.
and sit for
what she wants to do.
No, no. She knows
She's not the kind
to sit around
when she has a mission
to accomplish.
( sighs )
I told you.
it was locked.
I told you
( banging on door )
Yes?
I mean no disrespect.
there's something
But unless
to accomplish here,
I'm supposed
I'd like to continue
with the ritual.
By all means.
I'm not sure
how to begin.
Do you want me to give
you orders, Captain?
I'll do whatever
you ask of me.
I see.
this is just a matter
So you think that
of doing what
you're told.
spiritual significance
No, I'm sure there is
behind the challenges
involved.
That's what you expect.
Challenges?
I don't have any idea
what to expect.
of ritualistic societies
I've studied a number
and many of the rites
have commonalities.
completely different.
This one may be
whatever is necessary.
I'm willing to do
I don't doubt that.
But do you realize that all
of this is meaningless?
That the only thing
that matters
is finding your connection
to the Spirits?
every effort to do that,
I'm going to make
for personal enlightenment.
but I didn't come here
a member of my crew.
I'm trying to save
That's a worthy cause.
I hope the Spirits
listen to you.
Then let's begin.
The first challenge.
Stand like this.
Hold that.
Mmm.
Now...
what do you see
in your hands?
I see... a stone.
Keep looking.
Her respiration and pulse
have remained steady.
DOCTOR:
But there's been a gradual
buildup of lactic acid
in her extensor muscles
over the last hour.
What does that mean?
Is she in danger?
Not at all.
She's probably experiencing
light strain.
in an endurance ritual.
What you'd expect
Then there's nothing
so far
a treatment for Kes?
that would suggest
It's too early to tell.
every iota of information
I'm downloading
into a physiometric program,
from the bioprobe sensors
which is analyzing the data.
physiological change
Even the smallest
may prove significant.
We can't discount anything.
What do you see now?
I still see... a stone.
I guess you're not going to tell
me what I'm supposed to draw.
That would be too easy,
wouldn't it?
draw whatever feels right.
It's up to you--
I've never been
able to draw.
My sister was the artist
in the family.
And you were the scientist.
It's true.
were outside playing games,
When other children
mathematics problems.
I was doing
Mathematics? I can see
why you enjoyed it.
Solve a problem,
get an answer.
The answer's either
right or wrong.
It's very absolute.
I've always found that
satisfying.
I'm sure you did.
What did you see?
I'm not sure.
Describe it.
Aha.
What?!
What is it?!
What have you found?
significant increases
There have been
respiration, neuropeptides
in the Captain's
triphosphate levels.
and adenosine
Is that bad?
It certainly suggests
she's going through
a grueling physical
experience.
But it's the neuropeptides
that are interesting.
The saturations have risen
to quite an abnormal level.
Is that good or bad?
I can't say it's either, so far
as the Captain is concerned.
But it certainly seems
a substantial piece
of information.
Neuropeptide levels this high
could well create a natural
barrier to biogenic energy.
So you have something
that will help Kes.
the first piece of data
Not yet, but it's
to formulate a hypothesis.
that allows me even
It should be me going
through all that.
get hurt in the first place.
I was the one who let Kes
Mr. Neelix, you're wallowing.
Wallowing in useless remorse.
I'm...
I'll have to ask you to stop.
It's bad for the patient.
It's just frustrating
to be so helpless.
If it's any consolation,
Mr. Neelix,
I do understand.
I'm exhausted.
Oh, thank you.
should be transmitting
Your microprobe
information back to the ship.
all kinds of interesting
( hissing )
What is that?
It's a nesset.
They're able to travel
from this world
into the spirit realm.
They serve as gatekeepers.
Gatekeepers.
Then I'm ready to enter
the spirit realm.
Do you think you're ready?
Yes, I do.
Then you are.
Put your hand in.
Go ahead.
( hissing )
( squealing )
We can stop right now
if you like.
No, I'm not quitting.
( hissing )
( sharp twang )
( gasping )
Don't be afraid.
Oh... it's burning me!
Oh, my chest!
Getting tight!
Oh, oh, oh...
( panting ):
Captain?
Kes:
Kathryn?
I'm dying.
Everyone dies
eventually.
since she had any sleep.
It's been three days
to let her go through this?
How long are we going
I understand your concern,
but I must point out
that her vital signs are stable.
in no immediate danger.
She seems to be
with some unknown toxin.
She's been poisoned
It may be having an effect
we can't gauge.
It could lie dormant
for a few days
and then suddenly fluctuate
and kill her in minutes.
You seem to be implying that
I'm not paying attention.
monitoring her constantly.
I assure you, I am
in jeopardy, I would act.
If I thought she were
which might be preventing her
Doctor, is there anything
from using the homing signal
in her implant?
Not that I'm aware of.
She's fully conscious
and has complete motor control.
If she wanted to transport,
she could signal us.
Are you getting enough
meaningful information
her continuing this ordeal?
to justify
some remarkable data.
I am getting
Her entire biochemistry
of unique interactions. Look.
is undergoing a series
This amino acid
has been formed
as a result of the breakdown
in her bloodstream.
of the toxin
It's affecting the normal flow
of neurotransmitters
a hallucinogenic effect.
and very likely having
Is she delusional?
I think she's experiencing
of a psychoactive drug.
the Nechani version
she's in no condition
Then is it possible
to activate the homing signal?
I don't believe that's the case
and I strongly suspect
this biochemical change
is going to give us
the answers we need.
The toxin in her bloodstream
to creating a treatment for Kes.
may very well be the key
is ultimately yours, of course.
Commander, the decision
However, I believe it would
be the Captain's desire
to complete the ritual.
All right. We'll leave
her there for now.
But I'm not moving from this
monitor until she gets back.
Oh.
( rustling )
What is this?
An hallucination?
to serve as a voice--
I'm only here
for the Ancestral Spirits.
an interpreter
I see.
other beings here,
If there are
could I see them myself?
You mean you want proof
that we exist?
That would be helpful.
It's irrelevant.
I don't want to be
disrespectful.
every part of the ritual
I have gone through
that I have been asked to.
Everything you've gone through
is meaningless.
You've been told that.
I know.
I just want to bring this
to completion--
to make my request.
Then, by all means, do so.
of King Nevad as precedent.
I cite the story
he pleaded for his son,
In the same way
be restored to health.
I ask that Kes
is inconsequential.
Your request
You have what you need
to save her yourself.
Welcome back.
How long?
Does that matter?
Oh...
I'd like to know.
39 hours.
You must take care of yourself.
Your body's weak.
conditioning programs
I guess the physical
quite prepare me for this.
on the holodeck didn't
Has it been worthwhile?
I think so.
what I needed to save Kes.
I was told that I had
Then it must be true.
The Spirits would not
deceive you.
Whenever you're ready.
Thank you.
You could use a good night's
sleep and a solid meal,
you're in good shape.
but otherwise,
When can you begin
treating Kes?
Right away.
The ritual may have been arduous
for you, Captain,
but it was certainly worthwhile.
the toxin was the key.
As I suspected,
That's what produces
the natural immunity
the Nechani monks acquire
the biogenic field.
before they enter
How does that translate
into a cure for Kes?
a physiometric program
I've created
to analyze the immune mechanism
and develop a treatment regimen.
Then let's get started.
if you'll excuse me.
Captain,
I'm probably more useful
on the Bridge right now.
the treatment in stages
I'll carry out
to reduce the physical stress
from the metabolic changes.
( beeping )
Is something wrong?
What's that?
I don't believe so.
( beeping continues )
Hmm. Her electrolyte balance
is deviating,
but that's not entirely
unexpected.
It isn't.
Hmm...
What does that mean--
"hmm" what?
pestering me with questions,
Mr. Neelix, if you keep on
I won't be able to concentrate
on what I'm doing.
( siren-like beep )
( beeping continues )
Something is wrong.
What is it, doctor?
Her cardiac functions
are being disrupted.
I don't understand it.
Lectrazine should counteract
the disruptions.
( beeping continues )
This is baffling.
are exactly what they need to be
Her biochemical levels
to correct the damage.
She should be awake and alert.
Then why isn't she?!
I can't explain it.
Her vital signs are unstable.
I have to discontinue treatment.
I don't understand it.
Can't we try again?
It's too dangerous.
any other options?
Do you have
No. I'm sorry, Captain,
but it appears that everything
you went through...
was meaningless.
You meant what you said,
didn't you?
through was meaningless.
Everything I went
Yes.
I did everything
you asked of me.
would allow me to help Kes.
You led me to believe that
I haven't led you anywhere,
Kathryn.
wherever you wanted to go.
You've taken me along
This was your ritual.
You set these challenges
for yourself.
with certain expectations...
It's true that I came here
that you simply...
Are you saying
fulfilled my expectations?
You'd have settled
for nothing else.
I'm not ready to give up.
to save Kes, I want to try.
If there's still a way
to seek the Spirits.
You've come back
I don't know what I'm seeking.
you are ready to begin.
Then I believe
who's come back.
Well. Look
So, your little adventure
didn't quite work out
the way you'd
planned it.
You put yourself through
a lot of trouble
and for nothing, didn't you?
Don't feel bad.
You wouldn't believe
some of the things
people have done to themselves
to seek the Spirits.
on their way
So there's no real ritual
after all.
"Real" is such a relative term.
Most of the challenges in life
are the ones we create
for ourselves.
And you are particularly hard
on yourself, aren't you?
I've always been driven
to succeed.
Stubborn, I'd say.
You didn't really consider
sitting and waiting
with us, did you?
and I'm asking for your help.
Well, I'm here now,
I want to understand the purpose
in this room.
of waiting
to sit and be sociable?
But isn't it enough
We're good company.
That's what I'm supposed to do--
talk to the Ancestral Spirits.
Oh...
first, we were a test,
the Ancestral Spirits.
and now we're
Are you?
and quantifiable for you,
That would be nice
wouldn't it?
If the Spirits
were something
that you could see
and touch and scan
with your little devices.
If you can explain everything,
what's left to believe in?
I know it's an important part
of your religion
to trust the Spirits
without question,
but I wasn't brought up
that way.
It's hard for me to accept.
open-minded Starfleet ideals.
So much for your tolerant,
There's a difference
between respecting
the spiritual beliefs
of other cultures
and embracing them myself.
Don't embrace a thing.
Fine.
the same to us.
It's all
to your ship
Go on back
molecular microscanner.
and play with your
all that already,
You've tried
WOMAN:
but it didn't work,
did it?
Kes didn't get better.
Why not?
No, she didn't.
The doctor couldn't explain it.
So it's inexplicable.
A miraculous nonrecovery.
We haven't found the reason yet.
But of course you will.
the answers eventually
You'll find all
with enough time
and study
and the right
sort of tools.
That's what you believe,
isn't it, as a scientist?
Be honest.
I've always believed.
Yes, that's what
Even when her science fails
right before her eyes,
full confidence in it.
she still has
Now there's a leap of faith.
Unconditional trust.
Now that's promising.
All right...
if you're saying that science
won't help Kes,
what will?
You won't like it.
whatever's necessary.
I'm willing to do
Kill her.
She's as good as dead already.
Finish the job.
Give her another jolt of that--
what do you call it?--
biogenic field.
Oh... that would do it.
It would do what exactly?
There you go again.
for a rational explanation.
Always looking
Well, there isn't one.
and medical research
Your orbital scans
have given you the facts...
the biogenic field is lethal.
and they tell you
If you believe the facts.
Let all of that go, Kathryn.
Take Kes back into the shrine
and trust the Spirits
to return her soul.
The ritual I went through
was meaningless...
and Kes has done nothing
to prepare herself.
How could either of us be ready
to go through the field?
If you believe you're ready,
then you are.
There's no more to it
than that.
But if you go in with any doubt,
with any hesitation,
then you're both dead.
So, what are you going
to do, Captain?
You know I won't stand by
and watch Kes die
I can do to save her.
if there's anything
I want to believe it's possible.
I'm going to try.
Janeway to Chakotay.
Captain, we've been worried
about you.
I'm all right.
down here to the sanctuary.
I want you to beam Kes
I'll bring her down myself.
Acknowledged.
Chakotay to Sick Bay.
Doctor, prepare Kes
for transport.
Understood.
DOCTOR:
( whoosh of active transport)
The doctor says her life signs
are deteriorating.
He almost wouldn't let us
take her out of Sick Bay.
You've found a
way to help her.
Yes, I have.
into the biogenic field.
I'm taking her back
I hate to question you,
Captain, but why?
I believe it will save her life.
You have some new information
on the effects of the field?
I can't explain it to you.
Captain... you've been through
a lot in the past few days.
I know what I'm doing.
Are you sure of that?
of biogenic energy running
There are 800 megajoules
through that shrine.
The thoron radiation levels
are off the scale.
That's what you'd be taking
her and yourself into.
time to think about this
Why don't you take some
a few more scans?
and let us run
No.
Captain...
this isn't like you.
You know you'll always have
my gratitude
for everything you've done
to save Kes,
and I know she couldn't--
but I couldn't--
ask you to risk your own life
like this.
There are too many other people
who need you.
He's right.
It's my responsibility
to keep you safe--
for the crew's sake,
if not for your own.
to relieve you of duty,
I'd rather not have
been impaired in any way...
but if your judgment's
He can't really
do that, can he?
Yes, he can.
I suppose it might
be necessary
were really mentally impaired,
if the Captain of a ship
but you're not crazy, Kathryn.
You know that.
These are the same people
who were willing
NEELIX:
to let Kes die just for
disturbing their shrine.
Can you take their word for it
that you'll be
safe in there?
I can't give you
my word on that.
will happen to them
Nobody knows what
until they go in.
in the shrine
I don't know the answers...
but you do.
Captain...
I don't understand this.
Neither do I.
That's the challenge.
Kes...
( sighs )
The tricorder readings Commander
Chakotay took at the shrine
reveal traces of iridium ions,
which we could've
known about sooner
to take those readings at first.
if we'd been permitted
And iridium ions
are significant?
They caused a temporary
dielectric effect
in the outer epidermal layers,
some of the biogenic energy--
which neutralized
not much, but enough to make the
Captain's altered biochemistry
Then how was I cured?
an effective defense.
The metabolic treatment
I administered
impact of exposure to the field
protected you against the full
when the Captain
took you through.
That exposure functioned like
a natural cortical stimulator
your synaptic pathways.
and reactivated
That's fascinating, doctor.
KES:
Captain?
If there's something
about my analysis
you disagree with...
It's a perfectly sound
explanation, doctor.
Very... scientific.